This is Jocco podcast number 17 with echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
It's been ten years since April 2nd 2006. Ten years since those of us in 4th
Platoon huddled around the radio outside of an Iraqi army post near Camp Romadi trying
to make sense of the confused and uncertain radio traffic of the exos calm and firm voice
from the COC trying to determine what truck had been hit and who was missing.
Ten years since we drove the road back towards the Gov Center with fear in our minds and
hate in our hearts knowing we had lost close friends but not yet sure of the names.
Ten years since I met my platoon commander on the dark and steps of the Gov Center as
he came down from the COC and confirmed which truck it had been and when I pressed for
who was gone he simply said all of them.
He hadn't yet learned that one guy who was a fucking hard ass who wasn't going to let death
take another marine that day and whose recovery has been an inspiration to all those
men who know him.
Ten years since I did my best to pass the word to my team with steadfastness but repeating
all of them revealing me for the twenty year one year old I was through the tears I was
trying to hold back.
Ten years of trying to figure out what their sacrifice meant of shifting views on what
it was all for in the end.
That is something that is still a struggle but I've found solace and purpose in these
facts.
Staff Sergeant Eric McIntosh, Corporal Scott Procopio, Lance Corporal Kun, Young Kim and
Hospital Men Giovanni Padilla were men who chose to be part of something bigger than
themselves.
Men who chose to enter a profession of crushingly hard work sacrifice and danger all
for the simple purpose of protecting the men around them.
Staff Sergeant Mack was the epitome of a fighting marine, a stud who exuded proficiency
and professionalism, were also being humorous and approachable.
Procopio is without a doubt when the finest men I've ever had the fortune of meeting,
a beast of a marine who drove all around him with his enthusiasm and good nature.
While we were peers, I looked up to him and his natural leadership.
I still do.
Kim had a quiet reliability about him.
Unlike the usual loud, grigiriousness that people tend to associate with grunts, he
was low key and dependable.
And for some reason I can still see the way a smile would creep over his face when stupid
shit was going on and he'd laugh in a way that made it seem like he was seeing a deeper
joke that you didn't get yet.
Doc Padillo was new to the company and my memories of him are vague, but the men who knew
him better describe a young corpsman who was enthusiastic about his job.
The funny thing with corpsman is that sometimes you don't need to know much to judge their
character besides the fact that these young men volunteered for one specific duty.
To save the lives of their marines in combat, a more honorable calling is hard to find.
It's easy for today to be dark to get sucked into the trap of loss, regret, depression,
and anger.
It's easy to drown it in liquor under the pretence of having one for the boys.
This morning as we prepare ourselves to face the tenth of these days, we think of Scott
and his booming laugh.
He wouldn't want us sitting around morning like saps, wasting our precious days, burdened
with his death, like tormented widows out of some 19th century romance fiction.
He'd remind us that we all joined up for the same reasons.
We are infantry marines.
We wanted to fight to energetically meet the enemy in battle and crush him.
To serve beside men with whom we would build a bond stronger than most will ever know.
While the politics are complicated and the outcomes unclear, one thing is certain.
Their sacrifice was not in vain.
It was the sacrifice that warriors make for each other.
April 2nd is a day that defines us now, brings us together as brothers.
It is a day of remembrance and reflection.
A day that gives us reason to look at our lives and say, look, you son of a bitch.
This is why you have to live life to the fullest.
This is why you must fight every day to be a better man.
And then we must just remember that Scott, Procopio, would call you a pussy for doing the
opposite.
For five jins, we will never forget you.
So that was a post that someone forwarded to me that was on bread.
It was from an anonymous marine.
Obviously, this marine was from the three eight marines who we served with in Ramadi, who
were just outstanding warriors.
I thought that that tribute not only to the fallen, but also a form of council to his fellow
marines.
I just thought that that was an amazing piece of writing and I wanted to share it with everyone.
April 2nd.
Now speaking of Ramadi, which, you know, just like this marine, it's something that I think
about all the time and something that I refer back to a couple of podcasts ago, we talked
about the band of brothers, the first of the 506, who we also served with in Ramadi.
And it is a truly hallowed unit.
And if you've seen the HBO miniseries band of brothers, just a fantastic memorial and representation
of these American fighting men.
And the leader of that group, or one of the leaders of easy company and then of the
battalion, was a guy by the name of Major Dick Winners.
And he wrote after his, after he came famous, really, from the first book by Stephen
Ambrose called Band of Brothers and then the miniseries came out, called Band of Brothers.
He wrote a book, which is called Beyond Band of Brothers, the warm memoirs of Major Dick
Winners.
And I got to this book basically because I was going to do Band of Brothers, this Stephen
Ambrose.
But as everybody knows, or if you don't know, I like to get the source material from the
people that were there.
Stephen Ambrose is a historian.
And so I identified this book as I was researching more deeply into Band of Brothers.
I very quickly found this book, ordered it.
And yeah, there's no doubt.
So let me kick this off.
As Battalion operations officer, Hester pointed to where an enemy machine gun was located
in approximately where a four gun battery of 105s was situated.
That was all he knew.
Captain Hester turned to me and said, there's fire along that hedge road there.
Take care of it.
That was the sum of my orders.
No detailed battle plan, no intelligence summary, nothing but a specific task to be accomplished
without delay.
Easy company's mission was to silence the battery.
We talk about the basic principles of combat.
One of them is simple, clear concise.
There you go.
That's your orders.
There's fire along that hedge road.
Take care of it.
And this is also, obviously, an unbelievable example of decentralized command.
You go solve this problem.
And his response is I got it.
Back to the book, conducting a mental estimate of the situation I viewed any infantry
assault on the battery as a high risk opportunity since our air forces had failed to destroy
the artillery battery in the preliminary bombardment prior to the seaborn invasion.
Our key would be initiative and immediate appraisal of the situation, skillful use of the terrain
and our ability to destroy one gun at a time.
So you'll notice, he's going to, as soon as he knows that there's multiple guns, what
does he decide to do?
One gun at a time, solve one problem at a time.
Little something we like to call a prioriortized and execute.
The first thing I did was have everybody drop all equipment except ammunition and grenades.
So that was all we would need if things went from good to bad.
To get rid of the things you don't need.
Focus on this one task that we've got right now.
It's another prioritized and execute orger right there.
While the non-commissioned officers prepared the men for the assault, I conducted a hasty
reconnaissance of the enemy position.
A leader gains an advantage in combat if he's able to appraise the terrain and the situation
quickly and correctly.
Crawling along the hedge road, I moved to a position where I could get a better view of the
enemy position.
The guns appear to be set in the trench and the head road covered by a machine gun
fire from across an open pasture.
The battery was firing directly down, causeway number two in the direction of Utah Beach
where the initial waves of the fourth infantry division were already landing.
So you've got these German guns in an elevated position hammering Utah Beach where the fourth
infantry division is trying to land right now.
It's a nightmare.
It's anticipating that it would be too costly to conduct a frontal attack across an open
field.
I determined our chances of success would be greatly enhanced if we could hit the enemy
on the flank and silence one gun at a time.
Hit the enemy on the flank.
Again, these are basic principles and I hate calling, I hate using the word basic, because
it's fundamentals.
It's nothing basic about it.
It's basic, but it's beautiful.
It's simplicity.
Returning to the company, I assign specific missions to each man.
So everybody knows what their task is going to be.
First I placed one of easy companies to machine guns in a position where they could
provide a covering fire as we move carefully into position.
Cover and move.
Next I divided our detachment into two units, one led by Lieutenant Buck Compton and the
other remaining with me.
Compton moved down one headrow with Sergeant Garnier and Malarke to get his close to the
first gun in the battery as possible, while I led my unit down a parallel headrow.
Compton also sent Sergeant Slipton and Rainy to conceal position to put flanking fire on
the enemy while my detachment crawled across the open field to approach the gun first.
Once you've got multiple covering move situations going on right now, and again to the
military folks that are listening this, you could breeze through this description and miss
how important that is, how important and what a great example of covering move this is,
got to put down that cover fire, you got to put down that cover fire and that's why
you got to bring them heavy weapons out there, bring those AWs out boys.
Lots of them.
In my group, back to the book, when my group consisting of Corporal Joe Toy, PFC Robert
Pop-I-Win, and private Gerald the Rain from Regimental Headquarters, reached the hedge that
led to the enemy position and we stopped.
Here I placed a second machine gun to engage the first gun that was firing point blank
at us.
I gave the gun instructions and not to fire unless he saw a definite target so he would
not give away his position.
Then we worked our way up to Compton's headrow.
Here I spotted a German helmet and squeezed off two rounds.
Later I found a pool of blood at this position, but no Jerry.
Jerry's term for German.
Next I sent Compton with two men along the hedge to throw a hand grenades at the enemy
position while the rest of us supported him with covering fire.
These guys don't do anything without covering fire.
I fired occasionally to fill spots when there was a low in the covering fire due to putting
in new clips.
Compton took too long getting his detachment into position and we spent more ammunition
than we should have, but in return we received no enemy fire.
That covering fire, even though it took too long, but they didn't receive any enemy
fire because they were laying down that fire.
They were laying down that covering fire.
Just as Compton was ready to hurl his grenades, I started across the field with the rest
of the assault team.
So that what we jumped in the position together as the grenades exploded.
And simultaneously we heard additional grenades at the next position.
In return we received substantial smaller arms fire and grenades from the enemy.
As we approached the first gun, Papai win was hitting the butt and fell down in the trench.
Rather than complaining that he was hit, he apologized.
I'm sorry Lieutenant, I goofed, I goofed, I'm sorry.
My God, it's beautiful when you think of a guy who is so dedicated to his company that
he apologizes for getting hit.
Now he was a soldier hit by enemy fire in Normandy on D Day behind German lines.
And he's more upset that he'd let his buddies down than he was concerned with his own injury.
Papai's action.
Papai's actions spoke for all of us.
Now I'm fast-forwarding a little bit to get these guns taken down.
With the entire battery now destroyed, we now withdrew because the machine gun fire that
we were receiving from the matterhouse and other positions remained intense.
I pulled our own machine guns out first, then the rifleman.
I was last to leave, and as I was leaving, I took a final look down the trench, and there
was one wounded Jerry trying to put a machine gun onto into operation.
I drilled him through the head.
On our way back, I came across warn officer, J.G. Andrew Hill, who had been killed working
his way up to help us.
In all, we had suffered four dead, six wounded, and we had inflicted 15 dead and 12 captured
enemy.
German forces in the vicinity of the battery had outnumbered about 50.
About three hours passed since I had received the order to dispose of the battery.
And then, so they take care of that, they conduct some other smaller operations, and then
it goes to the end of D-Day.
At long last D-Day was over, our success had been to superb leadership at all levels, and
the training we had experienced prior to the invasion.
Add luck to the equation, an easy company comprised of formidable team.
In reflection, we were highly charged.
We knew what to do, and we conducted ourselves as part of a well-oiled machine.
Because we were so intimate with each other, I knew the strengths of each of my troopers.
This is something that he refers back to a lot, was really understanding his men, what
they were like, what drove them, what their strengths and weaknesses were, so he could
put them in the correct positions.
Being allowed us a few minutes of quiet reflection.
With our outposts in place, I stretched out to catch a few hours of sleep, even though
the rattle of German small arms fire continued throughout the night.
Before I dosed off, I did not forget to get on my knees and thank God for helping me
live through this day, and to ask his help on D-Plus One.
I would live this war one day at a time, and I promised myself that if I survived,
I would find a small farm somewhere in Pennsylvania countryside and spend the remainder
of my life in quiet and peace.
Now, as you hear about Dick Winners, and that's, I wanted to cover at least one
engagement, one actual engagement, and that's one of them, so you can kind of see the methodology,
the principles that he's putting into action.
But I want to concentrate not so much on the action now, but more on the leadership,
the leadership pieces of it.
Although there's still, I still do talk about some of the combat situations that they
get into, because they were in a war.
And I want to check in going back a little bit from where he came from, what his mindset,
what developed it, and he says this, I had a wonderful mother, very conservative.
She came from a men and night family, but never converted to that faith.
Honesty and discipline were driven into my head from day one.
At some point, I'm just going to have to stop like even accenting these things.
These common themes that are just run through these leaders, not surprisingly, mother was
undoubtedly one of the most influential people in my life.
A mother takes a child, she nurtures him, she instills discipline, and she teaches respect.
My mother was the first one up every morning.
She prepared breakfast for my sister and in me, and she was the last one to bed every
evening.
In many respects, she was the ideal company commander.
And subconsciously, I'm sure I patterned my own leadership abilities on this remarkable
woman.
So it's interesting, all he talked about was that she was the first one to work, and
she was the last one to leave work, meaning she was the first one up in the morning,
and she was the last one to leave.
And with that statement alone, he said that she's the ideal company commander.
Now, for those of you that aren't the military, your company commander is there's several
companies in a battalion, there could be three, maybe four, maybe even five, depending on
the task organization.
But it's a hundred, maybe 150 guys generally in a company.
So he's saying that this, that his mom would be an ideal company commander.
Why?
Because she wakes up early and has a lot of discipline.
Newsflash.
Now, speaking of, yeah, I won't read any more actions.
Here's another action.
I positioned men on both sides of the road and prepared to move out in order to secure
the intersection.
Here they are on a move, they're got to secure an intersection.
Lieutenant Wells led first platoon at the head of the company, column.
Precisely on schedule, I hollowed Wells move out.
Just as the attack started, a German machine gun located in a building at the foot of the
hill started to fire up the road.
The German gun crew is in perfect position at the perfect time to wipe out our entire
attack.
On the left hand side of the road, Wells pushed six men towards the intersection.
They went straight at that intersection and the enemy machine gun.
The enemy fire, however, was very effective.
Our men on both sides of the road kept low profiles and the ditches, heads down and they
frozen place, leaving Wells and his six men assaulting the intersection alone.
Using my rear, Colonel Strayer and his staff, including Captain Hester and Nixon, could
see what was happening.
They in turn were hollowing at me, get them moving, winners get them moving.
I struggled out of my harness to rid myself of excess equipment so that I could run.
Since it was obvious what needed to be done.
So guess what, people aren't moving, people aren't taking action and it's obvious to
him what needs to be done.
Looking at the middle of the column on the right hand side of the road, I hollowed, move
out, move out.
This did no good.
Everyone had his heads down.
This was the one and only time in the war that I really blew my top and physically kicked
ass.
I came out of that ditch with only my M1 in hand and haulering.
I ran to the head of the column, kicked ass on the left side of the road, then ran to the
right side of the road, back and forth, screaming at my top of my voice, get going.
I will never forget the surprise and fear on those faces looking up at me.
With me running around on the road like a wild man, the machine gunner seemed to zero in
on me.
I was a wide open target.
The bullet snapped by and glanced off the road all around me.
For a short time, I had the feeling of being blessed.
That feeling didn't last too long for hours to find out in a few minutes that I wasn't
so blessed.
And the reason I highlighted that section right there, because in the next literally the next
page in the book, you get this idea, and again, this is the idea that people have of military
leaders.
Is that they're these hard ass guys and these kick ass guys that are running around
and yelling like what I just read.
I wanted to highlight that because now we fast forward one page in the book.
And taking the intersection, easy companies sustain ten casualties.
Among our wounded were Sergeant Lippden, Ed Tipper, and Burr Smith.
Another casualty was Private Albert Belive, who was in the aid station sitting with his
back against the wall when I entered to have my wound cleaned, because by the way, major
winners got hit.
And so he's in there getting his wound cleaned.
Now he's looking at Private Blife, and he says here, I did not notice any wounds.
So I asked how are you doing, Blife?
I can't see, I can't see he replied.
I remember trying to comfort him by saying it's okay, Blife, relax, they'll have you out
of your soon and they'll send you back to England.
As I started to move away, Blife stood up suddenly saying, I'm okay, I'm okay, I can
see now.
As soon as Blife regained his vision, he immediately returned to duty.
If you think about that for a minute, that boy had been paralyzed by fear.
Yet he had the guts and dedication to stick to his buddies in easy company.
As soon as he relaxed and pulled himself together, he returned to the front, rather than
taking the easy way out, with an evacuation.
Sometimes all a soldier needed was a calm voice reassuring him that everything was fine.
In Blife's case, he rejoined the company and was wounded in action during the upcoming
fight.
After World War II, he served in the 187th Airborne Regiment in the Korean War where
he was awarded a silver star and the bronze star.
By the time he retired from military service, Blife was a company first sergeant.
So, the contrast there is that, instead of pulling a general George Patton and slapping
the guy around and saying, you're not wounded, he realized what he needed to do, which was
just comfort the guy.
Say, hey, listen, everything's okay.
We'll get you on a plane, we'll get you back to England, just take it easy.
Here's a section that I'm just going to jump too quickly when he's talking about the confusion
getting in the confusion getting our men into position was as bad as we were to ever see.
One time I found easy company troops firing into troops of another battalion.
Later we had some tanks show up for support and they began firing into our own mind.
So that's Blue On Blue, it's Fratur side and we talk about it in our book and it's one
of those things that they usually don't show it.
They usually don't portray it because it's hard to believe that things can get that confusing,
but they do.
And it goes all the way back.
And clear example right there.
Now we're going back to Blife and this is an interesting commentary on training.
And one of our daylight patrols led by Sergeant Garnier, Blife was point man when he spotted
a German sniper in a tree.
Just as he did in training, he automatically said bang, bang instead of dropping to the side
of the road and putting his rifle on the sniper.
So if you can imagine you're back in America or when they were doing their pre-attack training
in England and they weren't using real bullets, so they're out on a patrol and if they
saw something, they'd go bang, bang.
Well, that's literally what the guy did.
The German reacted first and shot Blife through the collarbone, the rest of the patrol,
recovered Blife and then withdrew to easy lines.
So again, military people that are listening, law enforcement, you train how you fight,
and you fight how you train.
So you just gotta keep that in mind all the time.
If you're giving yourself some kind of a training scar by doing something like a lip gun,
we actually did this in the sealed team.
Lip gun, that's what we call it, it's embarrassing.
In my early days, that's what we want to have a choice.
Like what you make sound like a band.
Like bang, bang, yeah, you're mouth.
Yeah.
And thankfully now they have unbelievable good systems, the paintball type systems that go in
our real guns, the laser tag type systems, so we don't have to use lip guns.
Back to the book, next sector.
Success breeds confidence and easy company success and normandy instilled the confidence
that they would need to succeed and live to fight another day.
At the same time, I could not help but think that had I trained the men harder.
If I had done a better job, maybe more of my men would have come home.
That's something a leader is always going to be thinking, always going to be thinking that.
What could we have done better?
What could I have done better?
Now they get back to England, they're taking a break, they get pulled off the line,
and he's back in Al, and Aldborn.
He's just talking about he's sort of reflecting back on his initial push into Europe.
You know you got guys there out drinking and doing whatever they're doing, and he says,
ask for myself, I relaxed the best I could.
Combat had made me tense, particularly since my decisions now meant life or death to the
members of my command.
Commanding soldiers and combat requires a personal detachment from the men themselves.
In a sense, command is the loneliest job in the world.
Looking at myself in the mirror, I could see how much I had changed, I could sense it.
Another thing that affected me was the importance of discipline.
The necessity of instilling discipline to my troops and getting the job done in combat.
In an attempt to escape the tension that combat had caused, I developed a heavier than
usual exercise regimen, and I attended church on a regular basis.
There were only a few days that I didn't run two to three miles, two 80 pushups, 60
situps on a foot locker, that a couple of splits and some leg and trunk exercises after
the day's work was over.
As a result, I kept in pretty good shape, not what I'd call wrestling shape, but good
enough for army work.
Physical activity kept me mentally alert, built my endurance, and kept me supple.
You got to do it.
You got to have that discipline and you got to work out.
You got to do it every day.
It's that important.
Yeah, see how I mentioned how it kept him mentally sharp.
It absolutely does.
Yeah, it's it that before that's one of the few things that you can do that affects everything
and everything in life.
You are correct.
I think people a lot of time in regards to exercise people think, well, exercise, that's
for a certain kind of person.
You know, maybe a fitness person or something like that.
That's for a dumb joke, right?
I'm a smart person.
I'm not going to exercise long answer.
Yeah, I think nowadays people are more hip to it for sure, but do you say hip?
Hitman, down, down with the cause, the new stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
But yeah, it is interesting how these leaders back then, they knew that.
Yep, even though there's been no, even though at that time there's been no scientific
study, their scientific study is now that proved it.
He didn't know that.
He just knew it.
Yeah, he felt that he lived it.
Now, they're in a position now, again, I'm just fast forward.
And even though I said I wasn't going to cover too much in the combat, I'm covering
the combat.
Because the combat is what puts these people in these leadership positions.
Combat is the ultimate teacher, the harshest teacher, and the teachers you lessons that you
do not forget.
So they're around this village of foi, which is a village that was held by the Germans
and they'd been waiting.
And they'd been a while.
And here's winners talking about, here's winners talking about his troops.
They were now completely exhausted.
They had had no hot food, little sleep, no rest, constant tension, and the pressure of
combat.
The worst time was night when temperatures plummeted and fog covered the battlefield until
mid-delate morning.
The uncertainty of what lay just yards ahead in the next treeline was sufficient to break
ordinary men.
Not surprisingly, the men became physically exhausted.
Physical exhaustion leads to mental exhaustion, which in turn causes men to lose discipline.
Laws of self-discipline then produces combat fatigue.
Self-discipline keeps a soldier doing his job.
Without it, he loses his pride, and he loses the importance of self-respecting the
eyes of his fellow soldiers.
It is pride that keeps a soldier going and keeps him in the fight.
This is what I feared I would lose, the loss of will to measure up to my men.
After seeing others break down, you wondered who is next, and you started taking a hard look
at yourself.
I often wondered why I didn't break under the strain of combat.
One factor undoubtedly lay in the fact that my battalion headquarters lay 75 yards behind
the Ford Foxholes.
No longer was I under enemy observation.
Consequently, I was able to concentrate on my duties without fear of enemy small arms
fire.
Another factor was undoubtedly my physical conditioning.
I don't think there was a man in the battalion who was in better physical shape than I
was.
My responsibility to ensure the safety of the soldiers also hardened me to cope with the daily
stress of combat.
One last observation on combat fatigue.
When you see a man break, he usually slams his helmet down and messes up his hair.
I don't know if it's conscious or unconscious, but a soldier goes to his head and massages
his head, shakes it, and then he's gone.
You can talk to him all you want, but he cannot hear you.
When he reaches that point, the best thing for everybody is just to let him take a walk.
Combat exhaustion occurs instantaneously.
You don't plan to become a combat fatigue casualty.
How do you prevent combat fatigue?
You talk to your troops and make some excuse to pull a soldier off the front line.
Of course pulling a soldier off the front line increases the stress of those who remain,
but is a necessary trade-off.
I often asked a soldier who might saw on the verge of a breakdown, how about coming back
with me to the CP to help out for a couple of days?
In this manner, you invent a reason for pulling a guy from the line without damaging his
psyche.
So, bunch of stuff there on combat fatigue.
I'm not saying that you're going to see combat fatigue in the civilian world.
But you do see people get stressed out in business.
I thought that that common about people messing up their hair and grabbing their head.
That's a really good indicator of when people are breaking.
I'll tell you one of the things, this is something that we talk about of the book, as
well as for us, the guys that had the most resistance to combat fatigue with a
guy that were most inturately involved in the planning of the operations.
They felt like they had control.
Unfortunately, we didn't know this.
We had guys that weren't involved, maybe they were new guys, or they just weren't that
involved in the planning or whatever.
All they were getting told was like, hey, get your gear on.
You're going out again.
Come back from that operation.
Hey, get your gear on.
You're going out again.
Those guys that didn't really get involved in the planning, it was harder for them because
they didn't feel like they had any control.
And they didn't see the risk mitigation that was happening.
And they didn't understand the strategy well enough.
Why?
Because I didn't tell them, my fault.
You know, I should have been more engaged than I should have explained to them the impact
that they were having.
I should have explained to them the overall strategic picture.
And I tried to do that.
And I thought I did it, but I didn't do well enough.
And those are the guys that definitely were the most stressed out.
So leaders out there, it's just another reason.
It's another reason to tell people why they're doing what they're doing and get them involved
in the planning and get them ownership of the planning.
So they feel like they have some control over it.
Interesting.
Oh, they mentioned how they dealt with that when they'd pull them off the line, right?
But they wouldn't just be like straight up straight.
Don't, hey, you're messing up.
Get off the line.
No.
It was like they pulled them off the line in a way that wouldn't, wouldn't mess them up.
Do we need you to take care of the supply issue?
Yeah.
Go back there for me and get this figured out.
Okay, I'll do it.
Give them a break, give them a rest.
This is something hack worth talked about too.
I mean, hack worth says, you know, about face, you know, he talks about he just says,
hey, everyone's got a cup of certain size cup.
Some people have a bigger cup than others, but when the cup gets filled up, that's it.
They're done.
And if you let the cup get filled up and overflow, then they're done forever.
But if you can catch it beforehand, they can go back a little bit and drain their cup out.
That's exactly what you talk about when you say manipulation.
All right.
You tell them just in a kind of a gingerly kind of way.
You know, make them signed on to the whole situation.
Yeah.
Yeah, no doubt about it.
This is going back to his discipline.
My routine was to shave every morning and then to inspect the line.
And in retrospect, shaving in the bitter cold was pretty ridiculous.
But the practice had originated with one of my first meetings with Colonel Sink.
At Tacoa, Sink had required us to shave every morning.
He said, you shave every morning for the men.
And if you want to, shave every evening for the women.
But that's up to you.
But I want you to said an example.
He was absolutely right.
I remember one morning when we prepared for our attack on foi.
I got up in the middle of the night to shave before getting something to eat.
In the process, I cut myself up pretty badly.
I must have looked like hell.
When Colonel Sink arrived to check on us before the attack commenced, he took one look
at me and had a huge smile on his face.
I later, I realized later that he was laughing at me for shaving on that bitterly cold
morning.
But that was one of the things I did to set an example for the men.
Shave in the morning and once in a while, I would strip to the waist and give myself a French
wash, a routine that caught everyone's attention.
I did this for one reason and one reason only to get the men's attention and to let them
know that I was going to be around for a while and this wasn't as bad as they thought
it was going to be.
Make the best of it.
And what I like about that is his total awareness of the impact that he's having on his
men.
He knows that they are watching them and if you're in a leadership position, you've got to
recognize that people are watching you.
Parents.
Yeah.
If you're a parent, you've got to realize that person that you're leading called your child,
they're watching you.
It's more critical than most of the time anyway, than what you say.
And people will make this excuse saying that they say, hey, do what I say, not what I
do.
Meanwhile, you're doing all this stuff.
That's not how they're going to be like, oh, that's just something you say.
Meanwhile, this is how you do it.
Apparently, mom and dad are doing it this way.
That's the way it's done.
We're going to do this.
Yeah.
You've got to do the right thing and people are watching you when you're in a leadership
position, you are being watched, you are being emulated.
Your emotions are being mimicked.
You don't know that.
You might not sense that, but your emotions are being mimicked.
You get into a panic mode.
You're going to have a bunch of people panicking.
You stay calm.
Your people are going to stay calm.
You get crazy.
Your people are going to go crazy.
Your people are watching you so set the good example.
And one of the premier examples he's setting is he's maintaining the discipline.
Now this is actually section.
I don't, it's, it's very interesting because we had, I had made a comment on the podcast
about, hey, what do you do?
Someone asked, what do you do if you get told to do something and you don't believe
in it.
Right.
And you know, I went through a big gray area and said, look, there's some gray area
there.
And if it's just something small that you can ask to do and you just, if you decide
you're going to lay down the wall right now and bang your fist on the table and say, I'm
not going to do that.
Well, then you're going to get fired.
And now someone else is going to have to come in there and do that thing that you've
been asked to do.
And I had one person on Twitter that kind of went back and forth with me.
And, you know, he said, hey, it does make an impact when you walk away.
And I agreed with him.
I said, yes, I know.
I'm not trying to say it doesn't make an impact when you walk away because it certainly
does.
But there's cases where it has more of an impact if you stay and you stay in the game.
So this is an example right here, a pretty shocking example because we have a guy that's
100% on board and is, you know, a street shooting guy that listens to his chain of command.
Here's what happens.
Colonel Bob Sink was a magnificent commander.
But this time he had had a little too much to drink and is ordered to dispatch another
patrol to capture additional prisoners did not make sense.
We had already captured sufficient prisoners for interrogation.
A second patrol would only result in casualties for no apparent reason.
Either exacerbating the situation was freshly fallen snow along the river that had
quickly turned to ice during the day.
If I followed Colonel Sink's order, the enemy would have heard us coming a long way off.
What to do?
I responded, yes, sir.
And then promptly ignored the order.
So he's doing what I was basically, what I was saying.
If he just said no sir, we're not going to do that.
Guess what?
He's going to get fired and now we're going to get someone else put in charge.
And even if he doesn't get fired, he's hurting his reputation.
So it's a bad situation.
But what he decides to do is go, God, it's sir.
We'll take care of it.
And then he promptly ignores the order to now back to the book.
To give the impression of compliance, however, I assembled the men in a building and told
them we were not going to send out this patrol because I did not think it was feasible.
I also informed them that my neck was in a news, if anyone ever said anything about it.
With that, the men laid down and caught some much needed sleep.
And I took the radio and adjusted mortar and artillery fire on my supposed objective.
And here's his thoughts on it.
On reflection, I did exactly the right thing and I have never had any regrets.
There was insufficient time for preparation.
The field to our front was wide open and I would have lost too many men for no purpose.
I wonder what I would have done had I been a career officer concerned about my own
future?
Would I have compromised my beliefs?
The deliberate disobedience of a lawful order by my commanding officer presented an ethical
dilemma of the first magnitude.
But you can see it's a guy who's staying on his principles.
And his principles were to accomplish the mission, take care of his men and he's weighing
those things out.
Those things aren't black and white.
Those things are not black and white because you look at all the times he did do
operations and missions and taskings where his guys got wounded and killed.
But he saw what the purpose was.
And now he sees something where there's no purpose and he says you know what?
Not going to do it.
But he doesn't tell the boss.
He just does next to you.
So there's stories of seals and Vietnam doing that.
And I heard that from the Vietnam seals would tell me, hey, if they got directed to do something
that they didn't think was a good mission.
I've talked about this before.
Oh, we're going to go. You want us to go three kilometers away and set up an ambush
on this river that's in really tough enemy control areas.
And we don't know what the intelligence is on who's going to come down that river.
Okay, cool.
And they'd patrol 200 meters out the gate.
Set up a little perimeter, right close to camp where there's no no problems, smoke a couple
cigarettes.
It's spent a few hours out there.
Walk back.
Yeah, hey, nothing happened.
No one came down the river.
I would think you'd have to be pretty responsible though.
If you're going to kind of exercise that course of action, otherwise you get someone who's
just like, no, don't feel like it.
Don't feel like it.
Yeah, no.
It's obviously something that a guy like Dick Winner did very rarely.
And the seals and Vietnam, something they were blown missions off all the time.
But they, you know, like I said, if something comes up where you completely disagree with
it, but you don't disagree with it to the point where you want to make a, you want to make
a stand that's going to make you get fired.
Now you're not supporting your guys anymore.
Yeah.
You know, okay, you kept them alive that night.
Well, who's coming in to take your place?
That's the question.
Who's coming in to take your place?
And you don't know who that is.
And what's their best interest going to be?
Because whoever comes in to take your place is going to be a company guy that's going to be
he's going to be a guy that's going to obey every last direct order from the guy.
And this is, you know, it's strange too.
I mean, here I am.
I mean, I was, as, as motivated it to be in the military as I could possibly be.
You know, so I'm not sitting here calling from you, to from guys.
But I am telling you to use common sense.
And you've got to put common sense on top of everything.
And sometimes common sense outweighs orders.
That's just the way it is.
It's rare.
And I said this last time as well.
It's not like you're getting these crazy orders from up the chain of command.
People aren't people aren't advancing in the military because they're idiots.
Right.
Yeah.
And it's not like they're not on your team.
And it's not like they want you to get killed.
And you know, maybe, you know, in this case, he could have given some pushback and said,
hey, you know what, boss here's what's going on.
There's fresh snow.
It's good they're going to hear us coming in a mile away.
We don't have good cover to the front.
This is not a good operation.
But maybe he heard the tone of the Colonel's voice and just said, hey, if I say that, and
then I don't do it, or if I say that, it's going to make me suspicious.
So you know what, I got it, sir.
And then don't do it.
Just a judge, a judgment of character.
But that's what you've got writing on you and your in a leadership position.
You got those guys' lives.
And that should be more important than anything.
And it's a strange dichotomy of leadership because on the one hand, you're trained
your whole military career that you got to take care of your men, take care of your people.
That's something you get trained on since day one, take care of your team.
And the dichotomy of that is you're going to do missions where you could very well
be sending your men to their death.
So there's a massive dichotomy there.
And how do you deal with the dichotomy?
You find the balance.
And the balance is not a cookie cutter response.
The balance is different for each scenario that you're in.
And how well you can weigh those opposing forces is a measure of what kind of leader you
are.
That's what makes leadership hard.
Now we're getting to move through Europe and now we're about to go from war to something
even more evil, which is the concentration camps, the death camps.
So back to the book.
Because they enter, this is back to the book, as they enter the death camps for the first
time.
The horror of what we observe remains with each paratrooper to this day.
You could not explain it.
You could not describe it.
And you could not exaggerate it.
It did not take long to realize that the Nazis were intent on eliminating all the Jews,
the Nazis, and anyone who disagreed with Hitler's regime.
The memory of starved, dazed men who dropped their eyes and heads and looked at them through
the chain-link fence in the same manner that a beaten mystery to dog would cringe.
Left a mark on all of us forever.
Nor could you underestimate the barbarity of the Nazi regime, even during the latter stages
of the war.
As I went through the war, it was natural to ask myself, why am I here?
Why am I putting up with a freezing cold, the constant rain, and the loss of so many comrades?
Does anybody care?
A soldier faces death on a daily basis, and his life is one of misery and deprivation.
He is cold, he suffers from hunger frequently bordering on starvation.
The impact of seeing those people behind that fence left me saying, if only to myself,
now I know why I am here.
For the first time, I understand what this war is all about.
And obviously seeing that evil firsthand.
That's one of the reasons why I think we explore the darkness and the evil on a fairly regular
basis here.
That's why I explore it.
That's why my mind is drawn to these things because you've got to understand that
evil is out there, and it's still here today, and somebody has got to take the fight
to the enemy.
Now I'm jumping towards the end of the book, and again, it's not really not given anything
away.
It's not allowed World War II ended, but this is how winter, or sorry, major winter is
kind of wraps up their combat back to the book.
And so many of the co-avadrins returned home, yet all would be forever connected by their
shared experiences in combat.
The course of the war, easy company alone, lost 48 men killed, and over 100 wounded,
incurring 150% casualties.
This percentage was not uncommon among similar units who had fought in the campaign of Northwest
Europe.
At the peak of its effectiveness in Holland in October of 1944, and in the R-Dens in January
1945, it was as good a rifle company as there was in the world, according to Arthur Steven
E. Ambrose.
How so many men survived the campaigns in Normandy, Holland, Bastone, and Germany was a true
testament to their courage, their training, and their discipline under fire.
And now I want to fast forward a little bit more to...
He's done.
He's now out of the military, and I know we got a lot of people that listened to the
show, because a lot of you guys reached out to me, and talk about that transition, a lot
of people asked me about that transition, and here's Dick Winter's transition.
While I was extremely happy to put the army behind me, I realized that I was a different
man than I was when I joined the army over four years earlier.
The war had changed me in many ways, as it does all who experience combat.
Having witnessed so much mass suffering, and the unparalleled barbarism that mankind is
capable of inflicting upon itself.
I don't see how any survivor can be ever be cruel to anything again.
In addition, I was a far better judge of character than I had been in 1941.
That feeling remains with me today a full 60 years after the war.
When I meet people for the first time and get to know them, I can't help but judge them
and size them up.
Do they have leadership?
Would they be good in combat?
Do they pass the test?
I was also more disciplined than I remembered being before I deployed to Europe.
This discipline helped me adapt to civilian life once I returned to Pennsylvania.
Like all veterans, I had to adjust to society, the life that you were going to share
with others in order to make a living.
I certainly never confused the challenges in the workplace with what I experienced in combat.
There would be no life and death struggles in the corporate world.
Business hardly equates to war.
Such comparisons demean the word.
When I read that, I actually had to put myself into check.
I wanted to make sure that I'm clear about something.
And obviously we wrote a book that's about comparing business and war.
But I want to make it clear that what we're comparing and what we say is similar.
In fact, they're the same is that principles, the principles of leadership are the same.
The struggles and the challenges and the consequences are not the same.
They are not.
So I want to make sure I make that clear.
Now, what's get to some of his reflections on leadership?
Back to the book.
Was I a successful leader?
They tell me I was and modesty prevents me from disagreeing with them.
I am not so naive that I don't realize the wide appeal of dick winners today as based
on leadership in combat.
I may not have been the best commander, but I always strove to be.
My men depended on me to carefully analyze every tactical situation to maximize the resources
that I had at my disposal to think under pressure and delete them by personal example.
I think it's interesting, even here, you know, he's looking back and he's a humble guy.
You know, I may have not been the best combat commander, but I always tried to be.
This is a humble man.
I am not sure there is such a thing as a natural born leader.
Some leaders are born with special aptitudes or talents.
But any success I might have had was the product of good upbringing, intense study and
preparation and physical conditioning that set me apart from my peers.
Here's dick winners.
I mean, one of the best kind of combat leaders at the tactical level in the modern era.
And he's saying that it was preparation and physical conditioning, setting him apart from
his peers.
I was all back the book.
I was also surrounded by a group of men who were disciplined and highly trained to accomplish
any mission.
I'd love to the equation and you can understand that the secret to my success was that
somehow I always managed to survive another day.
In recent years, I've been asked to address an increasing number of civic groups, corporate
seminars, and governmental agencies on the subject of leadership.
Most are looking for cookie cutter solutions as to what constitutes a successful leader.
What is the recipe for success?
And this is classic.
And actually when the book came out, we did a bunch of interviews that got turned into either
short articles or video clips.
And they title these things.
Like three things every leader must do.
And that's what they always do.
Everyone's looking exactly for what he says.
They start looking for cookie cutter solutions to what constitutes a successful leader.
What is the recipe for success?
In truth, there are no simple solutions.
Just as there is no average day in combat.
Each situation is different.
And each requires a leader to be flexible in adapting his or her particular leadership style
to the specific circumstances required to accomplish any mission.
It's a matter of adjusting to the individual and you do this every day.
You don't have just one way of treating people.
You adjust yourself to whom you are talking.
If I would give advice to a young leader going to war based on my observation of what
I had constituted the success of the outstanding leaders who comprised the American parachute
infantry regiment of World War II, I would offer a series of principles that I am
certain would result in great success regardless of the field endeavor, field of endeavor
in which the individual was participating.
So here he's saying the same thing that I said, which is leadership is the same, whether
it's in the battlefield or whatever endeavor you're going into, leadership principles
stay the same.
First and foremost, a leader should strive to be an individual of flawless character,
physical competence and moral courage.
If you have character, that means you are the guy, that means the guy you are dealing
with can trust you.
The men trust you have faith in you and they obey you no questions asked.
That's character in a nutshell.
Character also allows you to make decisions quickly and correctly.
One may question my decision to disobey a direct order from my commanding officer.
This is the story we already talked about.
And to fake another patrol as a violation of that very principle I'm advocating.
In my heart, however, I could not send my men to risk their lives for no apparent reason
when clearly nothing would have been gained that we had not already achieved.
Such a course takes a degree of moral courage, which I have found is far rather than physical
courage.
Was I correct?
In my estimation, I fought so and I have never regretted my decision.
The same holds true for developing leaders of competency.
Those entrusted to lead must study their profession to become totally proficient in tactics
and technology.
Prior to the invasion, I read every tactical manual I could lay my hands on to improve
my tactical knowledge and professional competence while other soldiers were out curousing
in the pubs.
While they were enjoying the social life of the neighboring towns, I was reading and educating
myself, getting ready to lead men into combat.
Getting smarter.
Open it up the books.
That's what he was doing.
And that's part of leadership.
That's part of his characteristics of leadership is to become knowledgeable to read and
study.
He goes on.
Don't waste time attempting to define leadership.
No need to go to a dictionary.
The infantry school at Fort Benning, Georgia has defined leadership in just two words via
its motto, follow me.
And he's going to do it again right here.
Physical fitness is another prerequisite for success.
I freely admit that I was blessed with a sound physical constitution but whenever possible
I took the opportunity to improve my physical stamina.
As I was in such good physical shape, I easily survived to coa.
That's their initial training that they went through for airborne.
While men washed out on a daily basis, the contingent from easy company that completed
the training and earned their wings at Fort Benning were tough as nails.
Because I was in such good shape, my fatigue level never reached the point of physical
exhaustion that contributes to mental exhaustion and ultimately to combat fatigue.
We all experience sleep deprivation at times.
That is the nature of stress.
But a physically exhausted leader routinely makes poor decisions in times of crisis.
And here he talks about another piece.
I have always felt that my principal contribution to the success of both easy company and
second battalion was based on my knowledge of what to expect from each man.
Know your people.
Having selected the right men for the right job, I then delegated the authority to my
subordinates and allowed them to use their initiative to execute the mission.
Decentralized command.
There is no need to tell someone how to do his job if you have properly trained your
team.
Good preparation is always vital to the success of any operation.
But leaders must remain flexible once the action commences.
Steve Ambrose likes to quote general Eisenhower who claimed before the battle is joined,
plans or everything.
Once the battle is joined, however plans go out the window.
Next I would encourage leaders to take a moment of self reflection before rushing into
important decisions.
This is a little bit of detachment.
Many leaders don't take the time to consider carefully their decisions or the implications
of their actions.
In battle, I periodically detached myself mentally from the noises and the chaos of battle.
I found it useful to separate myself momentarily and to carefully think through what actions
I needed to take to accomplish the mission.
Again, I read this book for the first time last week.
He's saying detachment straight up.
He's saying the exact same in battle, I periodically detached myself mentally from the noises
and chaos of battle.
Hang tough.
Never, ever give up regardless of the adversity.
If you are a leader, a fellow who other fellows look to, you have got to keep going.
I would also urge leaders to remain humble.
If you don't worry about who gets the credit, you get a lot more done.
Again, this is when people ask me what's the most important quality of a leader.
I tell them that humility.
Leaders should assume the blame when the operation fails.
When it succeeds, credit the men and women in your team.
They do the lion's share of the work.
And now he's going to talk about humility a little bit more.
Since the release of the HBO miniseries, many of us have been flooded with hundreds, sometimes
thousands of letters from adoring fans across the nation.
The attention is certainly flattering and greatly appreciated.
But it remains better to remember Eisenhower's address at Guild Hall Hall on June 12,
1945, to an ecstatic British public, which showered the Supreme Commander with a tumultuous
parade through the streets of London.
I commanded them.
Humility must always be the portion of any man who receives a claim earned in the blood of
his followers and the sacrifices of his friends.
I think anybody that's ever been in a leadership position and has been called some kind
of hero will think back to that statement.
Humility must always be the portion of any man who receives a claim earned in the blood
of his followers and the sacrifices of his friends.
And I think when you use that word hero, it's something that obviously gets thrown
around a lot.
And here's what Major Winners had to say about that, perhaps the best characterization
of what a true hero consists is found in a letter, Sergeant Mike Rainy sent me in January
1982, surely before he went back to the hospital for a series of tests.
Historians Stephen Ambrose used the passage to conclude band of brothers because Rainy
encapsulated the cohesion that became the hallmark of easy company.
In thinking back on the days of easy company, I'm treasuring my remark to a grandson who
asked grandpa, were you a hero in the war?
No, I answered, but I served in a company of heroes.
And I can tell you that I also served with many, many heroes, the guys in tasking to bruiser
the guys from 2 to 8 infantry, the guys from 1-1-AD and the ready first, the soldiers and
the Marines, all those brave men.
And some brave women as well.
And to those men and women, those soldiers and Marines that I was lucky enough to serve
with, I think that this statement right here from Dick Winners is something that I think
is very fitting.
As I look back on the men of easy company and the closeness we have enjoyed over the years,
I reminded of the dialogue attributed to a senior German officer bidding farewell to his men
in the HBO miniseries.
Paraphrasing his words, I would say to easy company and the officers in men of the 506
parachute infantry regiment.
It has been a long war.
It's been a hard war.
You have fought bravely, proudly for your country.
You are a special group of men connected by a bond that only exists in combat.
You've shared the in-communicable experience of war and have been tested under extreme
adversity.
You've shared foxholes and have held each other in dire moments.
You've seen death and have suffered together.
You've lived in an environment totally incomprehensible to those who do not know war.
I am proud and deeply honored to have served with every one of you.
You all deserve long and happy lives in peace.
I bid each of you God's speed and ask the Almighty to shower his blessings on you and your
families now and for generations to come.
And that wraps the book and, you know, I was thinking after the last podcast that this
was going to be a lighter one.
And I picked this book specifically because I see major dick winners as an incredible person,
incredible leader, a role model for everyone.
But because we are talking about war, there is still tragedy and loss and darkness there.
And that's okay.
And do you vet out there like the anonymous Marine that wrote that tribute to his brothers
from April 2nd?
And we know there's hundreds of thousands of veterans that are feeling that every day.
If you're having one of those dark days, it's okay.
It's okay.
It's okay to feel that darkness.
It's okay to remember it and miss it and hate it and love it.
And it's okay to wish it never happened.
And at the same time, to wish it never stopped.
And it's okay to want to take it all back.
And at the same time, to want to do it all again.
And if you've got in your mind that you think that people don't understand, that's okay.
They don't.
But you do.
You know darkness, you know evil.
But more important than that.
You know good.
You know light.
You know laughter and love better than anyone.
So embrace.
Embrace that darkness.
Own it.
Don't look away from it.
Don't bury it in booze or in pills.
Listen.
Listen to what corporal Scott Procopio would have been saying to you, live your life.
Embrace your life with physical activity and with nature and with you jutsu and with
son and with laughter and guitar and good memories and creativity and discipline.
Discipline yourself.
So you can free yourself and move forward into the future.
Whether there's no more darkness and no more war.
But peace.
Good evening, Echo.
Good evening.
Little message to the vets out there.
I hear from a lot of veterans and I just want to let those guys know, you know, kind of
where I'm coming from, get a lot of real positive stuff from guys and let some guys go
with you hard times and I know it and you know, I'm hoping to be able to kind of spread
my thoughts where I'm at and how what I think of these things.
Because you know, if you get guys like major winners that you know did everything that
he did in war, he came back and you know, he was able to figure it out and a lot of
those veterans were and they, you know, he said, wasn't an easy adaptation that they
made but they made it.
They made it.
So I think you got to embrace those things and be stronger than them.
And I know and I said all the time, you got to know that darkness and you really want
to appreciate the light and I think that guys that have been to war, they can do that
and life can seem so much better.
You know how bad it can be.
So speaking of feedback from people, rough transition right now, but that's what we do here.
What rough transition?
Rough transitions.
And you know what?
You know what's interesting about the rough transitions?
And any movement that's out there that's listening to me right now or anybody that's not
a vet that anyone that's been through hard times and loss, it's a big rough transition
and you go in and out emotionally.
And you know, you'll be feeling like crap one minute and then the next minute you'll feel
okay and you'll be laughing and that's, that's like I said, that's okay.
I think a lot of people are scared that they might be acting the wrong way.
But it's all right.
It's okay.
Yeah, and just like how you're saying where it may seem like people don't understand
and that's okay because they don't, that's so true because in this way, I think of it
because my best friends are actually they're still in, maybe seals.
So these are guys that you grow up with.
Grow up with and spend your best friends there in my wedding.
So a lot of them do you don't want to talk to them and stuff?
I just in my own head I kind of imagine what it's like coming back.
So if you kind of consider it kind of in a nutshell where you consider, hey, what's your
biggest problems when you're overseas, when you're in the war?
What are these big problems you gotta worry about?
Okay, and then let's factor that in okay, then we come home and then look okay, let's
say in the where your biggest problem is getting shot and die.
Are you getting both your legs blown off or whatever?
Whatever your biggest problem is as far as worrying about.
Okay, then you come home and on and on your girlfriend or your wife is like, hey, I thought
I told you to do those dishes and she's flipping out on you.
So in the back of your mind, you're kind of like okay, wait, the comparison, it was two days
ago.
I was in the desert worried about my legs being blown off.
And now I'm here, we're apparently the biggest problem according to my girlfriend's
life.
The biggest problem on earth.
Apparently because she's the only one she's really met, she's met.
She won't really talk to me or the dishes, yeah.
And it's just not computing, you know?
And then you go next door and their biggest problem is kind on the same level.
So yeah, they don't understand.
And you in a way you're living in this crazy world where I can see how that could kind
of get to you and be like, man, am I wrong?
Yeah, so one of the things that I and you hear me talk about this before is perspective.
And wanting to see, I always talk about it from a leadership perspective like I want to
think about what my superior is thinking.
Why is he telling me to do this?
Let me get his perspective.
And then what are my, what are my subordinates thinking?
What is their perspective?
And it's a very useful tool to use and what you're talking about right now.
And I remember I had a situation like that where I would be like, I'm not going to
always at work.
And I forget what was going on, but something was going on.
Like I think we were preparing to deploy guys earlier.
There's something major was going on.
There was major issues.
I think it was Afghanistan.
And we were getting ready to deploy guys early.
It was a real big spin up and all this stuff.
And literally I come home and I mean, I'm at work and we're trying to figure out I
were put this plan together and guys are going to play and it's horrible and you know,
whatever.
I'm just stressed.
I come home and I, hey, babe, you know how you doing?
I said in my wife and she's sitting there and all of a sudden she like picks up the
phone and someone calls her or she, someone calls her, she picks up the phone and she
hangs up.
She's like, I can't believe this.
Yeah, and I'm like, I thought something, you know, I thought someone died or
whatever.
And I said, I said, oh, what's wrong?
What's wrong?
And she said, um, there was something along like the wiggles is the same night as
Barney and I booked both tickets.
So with some things she was taking the kids to that like the literally did not matter
in any way shape or formed a me at all.
But it's her, you know, she had spent $22 on these tickets for three kids at the time.
At $66 and now she had booked double booked the children for multiple shows.
It was harsh.
But what I had to do is well, you know, I had to go in perspective in a whole and
world.
Man, that was $66, right?
And it was the kids and it was, they both wanted to see all the shows or whatever the
thing was.
So in her perspective, in her part of the world, that's a really big deal.
And so that's, I think something you're going to do as a, as a, as a, as a human, always
look at one of the people's perspectives are.
And you know what, if people are pissed off, if your wife's freaking out because you didn't
do the dishes, I got some really easy solution to that.
Do the dishes.
Just do the dishes.
Yeah.
You were put on some music and scrub some pots and pans.
Let's do this.
You know what, I'll scrub some pots and pans.
Be happy to.
Let's do this happen.
Yeah.
That's good, man.
And then, you know, that if you have the ability and kind of the wherewithal to do that, to, to,
really it's detaching, you detaching and looking at their situation, not looking at it from
your own personal situation.
If you can manage to do that, and I think it helps when someone reminds you, like, just
like, you say, right now.
And maybe someone will be like, hey, you know what, let me, let me go ahead and remember
that next time.
You know, all this stuff.
And I say this to leaders all the time when I go out and work with companies.
It's so much of it is just about awareness.
Yes.
When you become aware of the problem, you become aware of the mistake or you become aware
of the solution.
And it's there in front of you.
Then it becomes very easy.
The problem is, you people aren't aware of how easy it can be to solve some of these things.
If you just make this small adjustment to your mentality.
Yeah.
The way of is the fact that you're freaking steaming red lining for the fifth time, your
wife told you to do something when like I said, you're worrying about your guys getting
killed yesterday.
Yes, today is a go.
Yeah.
As one of my buddies, you used to say, when we are coming home from our first deployment,
he says, can you believe this tomorrow?
We're going to get on an aluminum tube and we're going to wake up back in Sydney.
I was like, okay, man, take it easy.
I'll stay.
You need to be broke.
All right.
Anything else here?
Yes.
We are in fact sponsored by on it.
Go to on it.com slash jockel.
Get some good stuff.
Yeah.
Get some very good stuff.
I prefer off a brain and shrimp tech.
What was that?
Was that that bar?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
The warrior bars check out the, this is the anti donor.
It's really like about it.
So the warrior bar, it's like, it's like, it's like beef jerky with some spice in it
and some cranberries and it's tasty.
Yeah, it's like the tender, it'll beef jerky.
Yes, it's beef jerky.
But there's that tender.
Yeah.
What they do by.
It's like that.
It's, it tastes really good and like moist.
It's good.
It's a dried.
Right.
So yeah.
Get some of those.
Your bars and their, their tasty.
Yeah, an official short and long term benefits.
I like that.
That's important.
I think.
Yes.
Dan, warrior bar.
Yeah, that, it's kind of a genius solution because you know how people
be like, hey, I'll take my protein shake.
A warrior bar is like made with actual food.
Yes.
That's legit.
So yeah, you can get all that.
And you can just get after them all day long.
Because, because they're, you know, you just, you're hungry.
But you think, oh, the one I'm going to have right now.
Mm-hmm.
You know, a donut is what you're thinking.
Sure.
Potentially.
Yeah.
On it.com slash jacco, get it 10% off.
Boom.
And then of course, if you, while you're online, if you want to check out the
jacco story, you can buy shirts.
If you like them.
And bumper stickers.
Yeah, we made some bumper stickers.
Yeah.
We did.
While jacco was not looking.
It looked good.
You under desk or your bumper, whatever.
And if some people indicated that they wanted to donate, you can donate on jaccostore.com
as well.
The PayPal thing or on jaccopodcast.com as well.
And click through Amazon.
We'll get some people posting what they're buying through Amazon.
Oh, yeah.
Which is awesome.
So yeah, if you're shopping on Amazon and you want to support the podcast, just click
on our link on Amazon.
And then do your shopping like you normally would.
Here's the thing.
I don't know if I told you.
Just what I added because my friends on Twitter is troopers.
They a lot of people were indicating that they like the books that you cover.
And they're like, hey, let me, you know, get those books.
You know what?
You should do.
You should have the list, the library of books that you've covered and link them.
So guess what?
I did.
Echo Scott.
Echo makes things happen.
That's what I like.
Now on jaccopodcast.com on the top.
I added it on the menu where it says books.
It just says books.
I don't know.
Okay.
And you click on there to have all the podcasts episodes, you know, the book, what
podcast episode is on.
You click on it, boom, you can get it.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
Easy.
All right.
Let's get some questions.
Okay.
Question number one.
Is taking extreme ownership the same as apologizing for failures or apologizing for
others mistakes?
I'm having difficulty separating these two concepts when I try to take ownership over
failures.
Does taking ownership of failure generally include in I'm sorry, X occurred?
It's such or it's such.
Well, it isn't just apologizing, right?
It isn't just saying, oh, I apologize this happened.
It's part of it.
Part of ownership is apologizing.
If you make a mistake, you've got to own it and generally you've got to say, hey, look,
I'm sorry this happened.
You've got to own that there's been a problem or a mistake or an issue.
And that does include other people's mistakes, but you have to literally take ownership
of them.
You can't say, hey, I'm sorry these other people made mistakes.
That's not what I'm talking about.
And it's look, the mistakes that were made were actually my fault.
And another important thing here is you can't just say, hey, guys, it's all my fault.
You actually need to believe it yourself.
You need to believe that you failed in the situation to do the right thing or make something
happen or make the right decision or make the right call and do the right preparation
or whatever it is that you're supposed to do, you need to do that.
You need to believe that.
You can't just say it.
And you say these mistakes were my fault.
Here's why it was my fault.
And yeah, I'm sorry that these things happen.
I apologize with this happening.
And some people see sorry as a sign of weakness.
And honestly, there's some legal situations you might be in or some negotiations that you
might be in where that might be true.
But most of the time, I was just going to work in environment, inside of a team.
Sorry is okay.
And in fact, an apology is often the first step in moving forward.
And it's generally going to be a little bit of a blow to your ego.
Now, and that's especially true because your mystery and ownership now or Mrs. extreme
ownership.
Guess what?
That doesn't mean everyone else is not yet.
They'll get there.
But they're not there yet.
So you apologize to someone.
It's going to be a big blow to your ego, especially when someone says, you're damn right
that was your fault.
That's going to hurt your ego.
I don't want to lash back out, but you can't.
You've got to put your ego in check.
And you got to go, hey, I understand.
That is my fault.
Why I'm saying it's my fault?
Because I truly believe it was my fault.
Because it is.
Because it is your fault.
So you have to be careful when someone glows don't let that get your head.
That's what you have to do.
And it's not just for you that you're doing this.
It's because the team has to figure out what the problem is.
Someone's going to take ownership of the problem, that's you.
And then I'll tell you you get the problem solved.
And I'll tell you something else.
And you might have predicted this.
But my sorry and my apology comes with something else.
99% of the time.
And that's a good.
So look, hey, I'm sorry that this happened.
This is my fault.
But I'm glad it happened now.
Oh, yeah.
Hey, you know what?
I'm glad we made this mistake.
We made this mistake right now.
It's going to set us back a little bit good because when we're not going to make it with
a client.
Oh, this happened.
This part of the project fell apart.
Good.
Now we can fix it.
We know about it.
Oh, this went sideways.
I missed it.
Good.
I won't let it happen again.
So throw yourself a little good on the end of your sorry.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, a lot of times those problems or mistakes or whatever they add to that experience,
like the experience of being there.
You know, where let's say you go through a path and you make a wrong turn.
Now you have that experience that that's a wrong turn.
That's what that looks like.
That's what that feels like.
And guess what?
We're going to avoid that in the future.
Rather than a bunch of situations where we're, for example, one in the future where it's
more detrimental.
Now you don't run into that.
Yeah.
You learned.
I probably think of it.
So a video that said that.
Be good.
You learned.
All right.
Next question.
Is there a way to be a straight shooter?
Oh, sorry.
Is there a way to be straight shooter jocco and not be a jerk or piss people off?
You know, this is a touch you.
Is everybody has so much respect for the straight shooter, right?
Hey, that guy's a straight shooter and you want to be a straight shooter.
You don't want to be someone that you don't want to be the opposite.
What's the opposite of a straight shooter?
That's like a liar.
Right.
The seever.
A deceiver, right?
So of course, we want to be the straight shooter.
Let me tell you, it is very difficult to be a straight shooter with everybody.
Even when you have a tremendous relationship with somebody, a tremendous relationship with
somebody.
Can you really be a straight shooter with them?
A true straight shooter.
I've been a true straight shooter with probably three or four people in my life.
In my life, I've been a straight shooter with maybe three or four people.
That's off the top of my head.
But I'm just saying it's not a big number.
It's got to be something that you are so in sync with.
I'm thinking about that.
I don't think that's impossible for me in my situation.
It's hard to be a straight shooter.
How can you reconcile being a straight shooter now?
Consider what that means.
But to be a straight shooter with somebody at all times.
Can't really do that.
What do we do instead?
You've got to use the indirect approach, the indirect approach.
I'm talking about this all the time.
This is a nuance that people come out on podcasts 12.
They say, hey, I heard you say this.
I'm going to go, remember that question we got to ask, do you ever get told you're
to direct to intense?
It's like no, I don't get told that.
Because I don't believe in being trying to be a straight shooter with everybody.
What I believe in is trying to get my message across to people so that it gets absorbed
by them.
The minute you straight shoot somebody, their defenses go up and it becomes problematic.
There's some indirect approaches when you have these discussions with people when you
use conversation to get your point across.
Hey, I was looking at this and I was wondering what I could do better.
Can you help me?
Or what can we do better?
You throwing the Wii on it.
Or you don't want to say something like that.
You got so much going on right now.
Do you want me to take anything off you?
You want me to take that thing off you're played that's kind of like a small little
detail.
Do you want me to handle that?
Or you know, hey, it seems like you're having a micromanage this guy over here.
You want me to go straight in that out and run that?
Or it seems like this guy is taking up too much of your time.
You want me to take that over or take that person over or you know it's a good one.
Is hey, can you help me with my team members?
I just want to sit down with you and just like have you talked to me about what you
see in my team members.
And then when you're you're discussing your team members and other people even your peers
and what they do good in that.
But what you're really doing is you're just tossing some things their way, some little
things their way so that they understand and they it and it's kind of like teaching
to get to right when you teach when you teach a move or teaching anything when you teach
a move you learn it better right?
If you make somebody teach a move they're going to learn it better.
So when you make someone sit down with you and go through the issues that people are having
it actually makes them self-reflect but they don't know it.
But they reap the results of it.
So that's a that's a crafty one that I've used a bunch.
Let's see here's a good one.
I think I'm letting you down.
I don't think I'm doing a good enough job.
You know it's like I think I'm just be careful with that one.
It seems like if you if you hit the wrong tone, you're going to be careful with all these.
You gotta be careful with all these.
You gotta be tactful.
You can ask some more direct questions but when you ask the more direct questions you
gotta be sort of you gotta be true you gotta be you gotta come across as being very truthful
in your in your inquisition.
So for instance hey what was the strategy that you were thinking about over here?
Like before this old thing of fellow part you know what to have but you know what you think
or or hey what was what were you thinking about when you put this together because I
I don't quite I don't quite get it.
You gotta be careful that's another one.
Yeah.
You gotta be careful.
That's okay.
What were you thinking right?
Right.
You gotta be soft with you.
So it's much better to be indirect and most of these cases.
And hopefully you can build relationships with people where you can be more direct or you
can get that conversation to be where it needs to be to where you can get the key
critical information across but it's very very challenging.
Yeah.
And again, it ain't it's not that challenging it's not impossible I did it with everybody
all the time.
I always had got my point across to people.
Always you know and I'll tell you this is something when I would straight shoot somebody
I would and this is if I really needed to straight shoot somebody I would write them
a very lengthy email to say hey here's what's going on here's what I'm saying and I would
really craft it with a lot of patience and and then I would either do once I wrote the
email I would either use that and wouldn't send it but I'd use it as a guide to myself
like okay this is the conversation I'm gonna have or I'd send it to them for real.
Like a deal.
Yeah like a deal note you know I actually read one of those.
I read one of those on on on on on on on or two or five I think it was number five that
is one of those things that I did I said okay you know what I got to help this guy out
got to be direct with them he's making some mistakes I want him do better here's a
little deal note for you get you square away the thing is these this is definitely hard
but it's not impossible you got to just have the open mind you got to use your
attack you got to use your judgment and you got to build relationships and have conversations with people
and and know what your intention is in the conversation and just keep slowly moving in that
direction.
You know what I a tip and I'm gonna say this tip because I like when people do it to me
when they're like correcting me or whatever is sprinkling little comments about the stuff
that that they did right.
Yeah that's a common practice.
Yeah but when you do that though you add in this you add in and that's what I like about
you you do this you know so it's you know so if you add in that's what I like about you
it kind of individualizes that person like I'm the guy who does that you know that good
part so it gives them that confidence so it's kind of like yeah tell me more kind of
attitude and then at the end doing like something along the lines of like yeah good
thanks you know thanks for the time or whatever and then be like I got your back yeah kind
of lead.
Well I mean we could go over techniques all night long those are both good ones you know
another one is like hey listen I think you can be a top performer here I think you're
gonna this is if you're talking to someone that's you know like a subordinate I think
you can be a top performer here there's here's what you're kicking ass out yes this
this and this here's this these two things right here if we can get these fixed you're
going platinum when we get these things when we get you know you're gonna pause it look
you I'm I'm imagining in the sense of you telling me this and like you get
to yourself you know yeah so like they just say like when I'd be like hey and I'd
ask him to say I'm in this position and he'd be like like yeah then later on you
know I text him what are the hey thanks for going over this with me just like
Cabrol you don't keep it up and you can be like a world champion you just say that
and I don't know who else he says that to everybody I don't know he's never said
that to me that's because we hate each other but for that moment I'm like
hell yeah you know like I hope he corrects me more I hope he tells me how to do
this because he obviously just like I was saying you know you could be a top
performer here yeah tell me what else what can I do what can I do and actually the
point that you're making is very good point which is you know picture going to
perspective of the other person and what is it gonna sound like to them and that's
a smart thing to do so you're you're hearing what you would hear if you were
them yeah yeah indirect people be indirect it's harder it's challenging it takes
more time it takes more patience and it is way more effective in fact
and we talked about how before like some people they'll be like hey I'm just
I'm just I tell it how it is you know I tell how it is and if you don't like
you kind of think and all right go ahead and do that but see how that works out for
you know see how many people follow you see many people want to listen to you
many people want to be around you even you know I like the indirect approach to
next question joko what is the number one philosophical lesson that you've
learned from jiu jitsu yeah so jiu jitsu emphasizes so much of what I believe
that it's tough to narrow down but I will but I will throw some things out
there that kind of our part of jiu jitsu and our part of what I believe
first of all we just talked about being indirect an indirect attacks flanking
that's what you have to do in jiu jitsu you have to set things up you have to
detach you have to detach from the chaos and from the emotional you cannot get
emotional on the mat attack the flanks you gotta hit people where they're
expecting it you gotta have a plan but you gotta be ready to adapt you gotta
constantly improve your position you gotta have fun while you're doing it you
gotta practice being in bad situations you gotta make your training is
realistic as possible right these are all things I talk about these in all
aspects of combat and in business and in life you gotta be physically fit
to your mind stay sharp that's true true in jiu jitsu it's true in combat it's
true in life you gotta know when to tap right you gotta know when to tap you
gotta know when to give up on a single battle so that you don't lose the whole
war gotta train for worst case scenarios you gotta start with that person on
your back gotta start with the person with you in an arm lock and training for
combat you gotta train for those worst case scenarios where you're outnumbered
you got a bunker position and there's shooting paintball at you and you got
down men that's what you gotta do you gotta train for the worst case scenarios
and same thing with business I work with like sales group sometimes and they'll
do role play and I'll say you know be the worst customer you can possibly be
exactly when this person meets a normal human they they know how to knock it out
of the park here's another one from jiu jitsu basically don't judge a book by
it's cover right because you don't know if the person that you're about the
slap is Jeff Glover or his Dean Lister or Jill Tudor or Joel Tudor you don't
know what's gonna happen so you don't judge a book by it's cover yeah I mean Dean
you'd be less apt to slap than you would Jeff Glover I guess that's a good
point Dean you can kind of judge by the cover yeah the cover is pretty evident but
Jeffy or Joel yeah you know those guys weigh 150 pounds and you know a surfer
guy and a whatever Jeff is I don't know what genre of human you put Jeff into
but you wouldn't think that he would throw a dars choke on your face so that's
that prioritize an execute in the jiu jitsu I mean we just talked about it
14 times tonight for combat talk about in business all the time you got to
make sure that the initiatives that you're running you don't have 38
initiatives and you jitsu guess what you hear this all the time you're
getting about to get choked you got to protect your neck number one you got to
protect your neck yeah then you can worry about your leg and then you can
worry about your arm and the hooks and everything else which got to protect the
neck you got to prioritize yeah gotta keep things simple you got to create
you got to have an open mind you got to be creative and look for different ways
to win and different things to do you got to make sure you don't get trapped in
your ruts mentally trapped in a rut this happens to me everybody yeah
happens to me but I only know what I can tell you about me and then as I get
trapped in ruts with your jitsu where I get I get stuck in something and I'll
just go with one move for a long period of time you got to be careful that I
need to be better about that discipline equals freedom so with you jitsu the
more disciplined you are in training the more freedom you have on the mat so
the more you train the more you work the more you drill the more you can move
the more you can escape the more you can create the more you can finish you
and not to mention the fear that it eliminates because like you know I'll
like let's say you're not that discipline you take two weeks off a lot of
time when you come back from that two weeks like you have that added element of
nervousness like dang am I gonna gas or am I gonna get you know tapped out in front
of everybody when you know when you know maybe there's a higher expectation on
me or something like that yeah no I don't have that yeah part of it though
for sure but I would say the number one philosophical lesson I guess is
the philosophical lesson is the same thing that I learned from combat and that's
humility in jitsu is absolutely one of the most humbling experiences in the
world and we've actually I got people now that have started jiu jitsu
because the podcast and they say oh I just did my first jiu jitsu class damn
that was humbling it is extremely humbling you're gonna get be you're never
gonna know everything you're always gonna be learning that there's other ways
to do things and somebody that just started can come up with amazing techniques
and that's humbling and there's other martial arts that have better moves
that you need to pay attention to like wrestling has better take downs like
sombo with the leg locks and catch wrestling some of those things that are
better moves and you need to apply those and guess what you still need to know
how to strike because it can be hard to take people down so you know how to
how to strike and you can't be cocky and you can't be over confident because
the bottom line is in jiu jitsu you will get beat and you will get beat by
smaller guys by weaker guys by older guys you're gonna get beat and there's
somebody that's better than you and if you don't like that or if your ego
doesn't like that then you gotta find a new game to play yeah because you need
to find a softer game or an easier game because jiu jitsu is honest yeah and
you cannot escape that and that's as it should be and it's of course this
philosophical this philosophy is something that I definitely carried over to
combat and carry over to when I talk to businesses and carry over to life you
can't be over confident you can't be over confident you're never gonna think
you know everything you have to respect the enemy that's part of humility you
got to respect your if you're not humble you don't respect your enemy you don't
respect your opponent you don't respect your competitor and if you don't that's
when you're gonna get caught so to me humility is the most important thing
that jiu jitsu teaches you yeah and you know it's kind of a can be kind of
but not a trick yeah I'll have a call to the tricks because okay you got
it you got to maintain the humility right but that humility will be tested if
you stick with it so I don't tell you a little quick story about that test being
stood upon me it was like a little after I got my purple belt I was really
like really hit my stride I was competing a lot in winning and you were
trained with me a lot back yes that was that was right at that time when I was
training with you and you were you know when I you know if there was a
little mentorship going on yeah that was the exact time yeah and and I was like
yeah I started to kind of you know give me into my own height you know like oh
I'm the man not outwardly but on the inside and just fun jiu jitsu man gets
cocky on the inside yeah and here's thing a lot of people that's how you know
it in fact a little bit of that is good because you get a confidence that
hunger to even learn more and be better so I had that and then Greg and
rolled with Greg since I did know him as good but I knew him but not as good as I
do now and last time I wanted to say the last time I rolled with him I was a
white belt long time ago and he just would destroy me so I was like Greg's like oh
yeah you know congratulations you know you've been winning and stuff like that
was like oh yeah he's like all right yeah let's roll so I'm like I let me
chill yeah I'm thinking in my mind yeah I've been winning here let me go
ahead and show you my new stuff you know it's gonna show Greg in my own
mind yeah and Greg took me like I was a white belt again immediately the kind
where he literally nothing I did work and everything he did work there's like
it's like he did a step one step two step three tap me out step one
step two set tap me out and that was the time where I got put from like the
top of the mountain in my own head right to the bottom of the mountain literally
to the bottom not to not almost at the bottom to the bottom of the mountain yeah
that's that's it's actually it's actually so good when that happens and
and actually it's something I occasionally do you get to super humbling occasionally
you get someone that is really really good and they don't recognize they don't
come up against people all the time that are they don't come up against
people very often that are better than them yeah most people in the beginning
you have you have several years of of being beat down but occasionally
you get something that's a great wrestler or maybe they were a judo player or
something so they come into the game or they're just super strong or they're
just a freak athlete and so they very quickly you know in a matter of six
months to a year all of a sudden they're doing really well yeah sometimes those
people sometimes those people mentally they might be good at your jitzie but
they don't they don't mentally get it and they become really bullies and that's
that's that's one of the it doesn't happen that often like I said but it
doesn't occasionally happen where you get somebody that just is a dominant
force they don't get humble enough and and they don't because even if you
don't actually get humbled jiu jitsu normally in the beginning you learn
like oh because one of the things I say to people is I'm not you know because
I can tap you but doesn't mean that I'm a better human than you just means I
train more jiu jitsu than you this you know what I mean that's all it means and
that means that someone else has trained in jiu jiu more than me and they
can beat me and that's just what it is but sometimes people think that because
they can tap somebody out that they're better than them yeah as a human yeah
there is a spirit and that's not a good attitude to have that's not what you
jiu jitsu should be about yeah and those guys a lot of times because they
and this is just kind of a one way to put it they don't pay their dues so to speak
you know like a normal way they don't get the humility lesson over and over and
over again they get it like a few times within the overcomment quickly yeah and
it out ways that way yeah so you gotta be careful of that yeah just just be just
be careful that if you're if you're a person that's naturally really a depth of
jiu jitsu make sure you're not getting turning into a bully yeah and a lot of
times that can block you from learning oh definitely block you because it's like
why would I why would I start learning all this weirdo game like if you're
strong wrestler like why would I start learning bottom game yeah if when I'm
killing with all this other stuff I mean listen because there's someone that's a better
wrestler than you yeah that's why or just knows the combination because a lot of times
certain guys they'll they'll know the combo to beat wrestling yeah without having to do
wrestling yeah make some guys that they're just like that you know so part of it
jiu jitsu okay next question have you ever been so dug in on a solution or an
opinion that it felt impossible to admit that you were in fact wrong
so I actually almost gave up on this question and and
because it's been I learned this lesson a long time ago that again the humility that you
get from jiu jitsu and from combat and from life is that I very seldom dig in on
something that I'm not 100% sure of yeah and and which means I don't dig in on a
lot because I'm not a 100% sure of much right who can be a 100% sure of a lot of things
and when I do do that it's not that hard for me to realize that I'm wrong
stifle my ego admit it in change course it's not that big of a deal to me
when I like I said when I do dig in on a subject or on a decision it's because I know
like almost to a 100% certainty that I'm right otherwise I'm gonna leave myself a little bit of an
out I'm not gonna just dig in on things that I can't be positive about because why
would I why would I do that now when I end up being wrong if I do take a stance on
something it's no big deal I'm gonna use that as an opportunity to show that I'm
humble and show that I can admit when I'm wrong I'm gonna take advantage of a good
I'm wrong good and you know so I would say just keep your options open keep an
open mind when you feel yourself or your ego is digging in just check yourself
and admit that you're wrong and move on and one thing I think that happens with people is people
think that digging in and having a strong 100% opinion makes them a pure stronger or it makes
their idea pure stronger but I don't think so I'm not saying to be wishy washy on stuff
I'm just saying I don't have an open mind because I think that's the ultimate strength
that's kind of my opinion I mean the last time I came close to digging in I was advising a company
and they were going through some rough a little bit of a rough patch and they started multiple
initiatives to try and turn some some things around and one of the initiatives
of all the initiatives there was a couple that the CEO wanted done immediately and two of
those initiatives when I looked at them I thought that they were redundant and so I said look
I wouldn't waste I wouldn't do both these initiatives just pick one I think this one's the
better one just do this one and I think it'll cover the problem and I convinced them
and it was pretty easy to convince them because they were had limited resources at the time
and limited assets so it wasn't like they had a bunch of stuff to spread around
but he was pretty sad on it but I convinced them otherwise and he agreed and within a matter of
days it started to look like I was wrong and it started to look like both systems were going to
be needed to solve that specific issue so I didn't like wait I didn't say oh I hope that things go
I said look hey I think I was wrong about this I think you were right let's get the other
initiative going and let's get this problem covered and that's it and I'm telling you he didn't
lose respect for me because I said hey I'm wrong after a few days of watching what the results are
and making an early decision he actually thought it was awesome and he knew he's like hey I wish
everyone could admit when they were wrong like that it would make everything around here so much
easier and I said well that's why I'm here in the first place right is to help with that so
just be conscious when you dig in you know because when you dig in you're actually when you
dig in you're taking away your ability to maneuver oh yeah you don't want to do that it's good so
so watch out now should I read this question because this is a question for echo Charles
so that means I get you well it's two questions actually but I put them together because they're
pretty close jocca willing what brought you and echo Charles together can we get the backstory there
I like the chemistry echo Charles question for you to answer on jocco podcast what have you
learned from jocco and how has your life changed since this is echo's first response to a question
don't screw it up here we go I'll tackle you yeah yeah of course which is funny because that's kind
of how what brought us together we're a part of what brought us together and I think it's good
that I answer this part because you probably remember a lot less of it so
I would say it was oh six I'd seen you like the first you know whatever within the first year
of joining with Dean in 05 but I didn't know you didn't talk to you nothing like that I just
had heard of you from Dean and then in like 06 when we moved over to the boxing club I rolled
with you one time I was still a white belt and so that could have been still 05 I don't know and then
you know you beat me up and you kind of you were just more like this stoic guy basically I would
imagine the same guy that people interpret you to be from the outside you know kind of like not
intense but just real like yeah just real matter of fact you know so you beat me up or whatever and
then I was so I since I had already heard of you were Dean's black belt and you know all this stuff
that I was like yeah that's about right you know he's you know good you do whatever beat me up
but that wasn't really saying much because everyone was beating me up and then time went on I didn't
see you for a while and then when I started to kind of get lost I was trained with Brent
Brent yeah I was training with him and then with Alias a little bit and then I would come back
I was competing and then you were just around for whatever reason and then yeah I just started
training with you and I think that's the one we opened victory right yes is around the same time yeah
yeah exactly and then um yeah well funny is that you never came off like once like like new you like
immediately you never came off as this super intense person like it was more like you were just
sarcastic like well you know like any other like any other of my friends but you could still always
tell that there are something behind the scenes you know you know Darrogens said like he's seeing you
and he was like there's I don't know this guy you know it's kind of got that same feeling but you
were always just like oh yeah this real matter fact but fun funny like kind of person whatever
like but when I say matter fact I mean like um like that one this one tournament when uh it was kind
of later where I lost two genre Roberts and you got me with a go-go plata and you know when you
lose in jujitsu training and that was the first time I lost in since I went advance you know because
those doing a lot of no-gui I had never lost and genre Roberts gets me with a go-go plata so instead of
you saying hey you know it's okay here nothing like that you send me a text you're sitting across
the arena you're right there you send me a text hey you got caught with a go-go that's got a sting
that's not a tournament it's not practice you can say that could stuff it was like oh whatever
but I think that um that you know training together and just kind of getting you you you kind of
had that thing that you could say that kind of stuff because really it's not that serious you know
yeah when I don't think I don't there's there's not many people who could have conveyed that though
you know it came it I think it had to come from you anyway so yeah that's kind of how
we met and then um kind of after a while how did the idea of a podcast come up because we we kind
of talked about that a little bit before I kind of forget the formation but it was in my mind
when I went on jailroguins I think we had talked about hey you know we should do something I think
you said to me like hey you should do it and so when I went on jailroguins and he said you should do a
podcast I think what Tim Ferriss said hey you should do a podcast and then I kind of be you being
a techie sound guy video guy I just said hey do you know how to make a podcast yeah that's right
I just said hey how do you you know how to make a podcast so I need to make one yeah
yeah yeah because everything to be just a total caveman right get how do you do I need a tape recorder
what do I need you know that's what my answer then you said yeah I know I know how to do that I could
make that happen and then you said it'd be cool instead of just you sitting there talking if you
had someone to talk to and I said yeah you're right that would be cool and then you said it'd be cool
if it was me yeah well my my selling point was that strange if it's just you right just sitting there
you know it's it's more strange and it's better if you have someone to kind of bounce things off
okay especially someone who can kind of be like oh I'm just every day guy like so I can like
ask questions that kind of reiterate the point right just someone who might not get it
yeah I had an awful lot out you know in my mind I did anyway but yeah then yeah obviously Joe
Rogan was kind of the tipping point when he suggested it yeah yeah no that was a good gradient
side from Joe Rogan and I'm glad he did and I'm glad you did and look at we did
make this podcast happen so to answer the question what have I learned and this is interesting
because I asked myself this exact same question like a week ago because I am literally a different
person in ways that kind of are kind of surprising in a way so I'd say the first thing that's kind
of kind of not that surprising but it's it's very prevalent is when people blame when I see people
blaming other people or blaming me or I feel the compulsion to blame someone else it stands out
like a sore thumb almost like if if I've been feeling that and it like almost like if I want to say
something to to indicate that I'm going to blame someone or something it's almost like a red flag like
I'm not allowed to do that in my own mind it's like it's hard in fast rule and like I said they just
stand out like a sore thumb everywhere though on TV you know the guy not even my conversation oh I
see what you're doing right there you know so it's like it's like your whole way of life in that
regard is just shifted extreme ownership and the awareness of that seeing it and other people
or lack of it and other people definitely stands out like crazy once you start thinking about it
yeah and I have the luxury of being around you talking about these things talking about examples of it
every week right so throughout the week I'm like I can't even help but notice it you know and it's
right it helps man because it applies to everyone and everything like most relationships are going to
apply these principles you know if you're involved in them so yeah it's all automatic now so so
when it comes to ownership and really blaming myself if anyone and focusing on my responsibility
in any scenario whatever it comes automatic now I would say so huge stuff I mean whether I make
the right choices that's always going to be working probably progress I think but as far as that attitude
it's automatic now that's awesome and then in regards to okay so I've always been into working
out and so me not feeling like working out is I've always felt like working out so
as far as not feeling like it that wasn't really a factor but in a bunch of other things in life
it was a factor and so so you're saying we're not feeling like doing this and why you're
seeing yeah like oh I got it I got to go to the post office today and that's on the low end and then
or the other one is I don't know I get it I don't know something more important right but maybe
I'll wait a wait till really the last minute or we know procrastination type stuff so you're getting
into the here and now yeah and not feeling like it that means absolutely nothing something needs
to be done and I don't feel like it and you know how like you have certain ideas already and then
other ideas are introduced and then those ideas kind of mingle with your existing ideas and they
formulate this whole new course of action right so the not feeling like it is no excuse that idea
came in and so now like it morphed into this thing like me not feeling like it who guess what I'm
going to do I'm going to do it right so it's almost like this personal challenge now you know and
man as far as results go and you get everything done I get it so much stuff done and it's not
some probably compared to you it's nothing but I get stuff done like so many things done during
the day that I never thought that I could do that many things in a day that's all I'm always looking
for maybe a rest or a nap or something like that but now everyone's all all be challenging myself
to do as many things as I can and be like solid and on top of that and you're the one who said this
was one time one of the things you were kind of tired and you were like you know what what I like
this I like just grinding and grinding and grinding and then at the end of the day when I go
it go to bed where my head just crashes into the pillow I like that and I was like yeah that sounds
nice you know so when I approach things like that now and also I think of all the good things that have
been done like great things and just good things whatever if these people didn't do it because they
didn't feel like it like these things when they got done you know so if you got stuff to do
you do it whether you feel like it or not that's what I have for myself now and the last thing
is I kind of knew this but man it's so clear now that you can get certain messages and
information and tips and tactics and stuff from from people or the internet or books or whatever
but if you're not ready to accept them you just won't accept them or they'll just go in one
year and out the other and a lot of time that has to do with who's saying it so
if like I don't know your neighbor some goof off he's drinking a beer smoking a cigarette
he's like hey guess what you know you should do this and it's that it can be this great advice
being like I'm not going to listen to you I'm not even a listen to you I'm not even going to
get past that part the fact that you're the one that saying this already walled me off from what
you have to say and that's natural I think but a lot of these things like you're reading these old
books that have these messages that you've been saying so it's not new stuff and a lot of stuff
I heard that take responsibility for for your actions yeah that's not new you know if I
bust out hey hey you guy on the street take responsibility for your actions if something comes
up I'm just saying he'd be like yeah that's nothing new I wouldn't stand out but for some reason when
you're saying it get you thinking yeah let me take responsibility you know so that so yeah it's say
when it comes to listening to you this podcast all the you know the answers you have for these
questions and any questions I even have it seems like it it comes and a process it way more readily
than you know memes on Facebook or wherever you know say that that's awesome pretty true that's
that's really cool that's that's great to hear and I've I mean I've definitely seen a transition
in everything you're doing I mean everything you're doing is spot on yeah and that's legit you know
it's legit to see it's legit to see someone moving towards their potential as a human yeah that's
awesome to see yeah and another thing that kind of I came to as not a conclusion but it which is
a result it's not a direct like you didn't tell me this but this is what all my existing thoughts
mixed with all your input kind of arrived at one of the things is that it's up to you it's up to me
what I spend my time doing totally up to me and it's up to me what I feel my head with so you know
I like I used to have these shows that I love to I love to watch Hawaii 50 and Shark Tank and that's
kind of it I don't really watch that much TV but those do that's maybe you know two hours or so
that I could be reading something that's gonna help me through the rest of my life or getting better
at something that's gonna help my you know relationships or career or something like that and I
use that example because that seems pretty pretty like not in consequence because it's only two
shows it's not like I spent 10 hours a day watching TV it's just two shows because no harm in that
right but it's that's up to me I'm not missing out by missing Hawaii 50 not missing out that's not
gonna affect my life in any negative way in the future at all I don't want to affect my life in
any way actually but if I read something useful educate myself in you know whatever arena that's
gonna improve my interests or my or my relationship or something like that that will that will help
me yeah no I've that's one of the things I've noticed when I'd show show up at the studio
and you'd say all's reading this book today about you know how we could get this to sound better
and I read this thing about you know you're coming back and me with all this information
and it was something that just transitioned in your brain where you said you know what I could be
watching TV in wasting my mind or I could be applying myself and learning yeah and that's
that makes a huge difference yeah this is what one of the things I read actually
and I read it on I want to say Wikipedia this specific thing but there's this this automatic
way of thinking and it's called hyperbolic discounting right and all that it all that means is
you choose immediate payoffs versus and I kind of mentioned this before you choose immediate
payoffs versus long-term payoffs right and it's there for a reason survival mechanism and all these
ways but it's all that exists for an you know an environment that's not current so if you can
basically be aware of that and combat that where don't do the immediate payoff things so
just take take what you're about to do evaluated is this going to help me other than the pleasure
that I think well whether that in regards to food drinking TV shows like if you watch reality TV
check yourself on now and ask yourself is this going to help me in the future and typically
that that answer for those types of things you're going to be know and then consider in alternative
that you can do and a lot of the stuff can be pleasurable that will help you in the future and it's
totally up to you it's totally up to you why not make the good choice yeah and the payoff not only
is it bigger it lasts longer yeah and the immediate payoff is gone it's just a memory
awesome that's awesome to hear and and actually we got that next comment here is sort of the same
vein that's coming from and we get a bunch of you know emails but I just thought this one was
was interesting to hear someone kind of talking about their transition here she says I'm one of
many many people who live their lives as they think they should and end up mid 40s lost
chubby and depressed I definitely don't hear a worship you but I'm truly grateful
for your online presence I now get up at 5 a.m. daily and I screened grab my phone every morning
as the alarm goes off and post that shot with another shot from my walk a few minutes in
I walk for an hour daily and it started stretching daily for an hour but this doesn't stop there
I now have a bunch of friends who are getting up early and going for a walk or going to the gym
getting after it as you say we are all noticing an improvement in our lives so we might not be
military or police we are not planning on becoming jiu jitsu champions at this stage we're just
people who lost themselves lost their way who are finding their way back in part thanks to you
I credit you at least twice a week and tell people to find you on Twitter I had to write here
because there's no way I could fit this into 140 characters and thanks to Tim and Joe for having
you on their shows that's where I found you have a great day so it really cool you know really cool
to hear that really great to get that feedback and you know this is what I like about it
but first of all you know I thank people who spread the words and it's really good to hear
that feedback it fires me up to hear the feedback and when people say I motivate them I'm always
like you motivate me you know that motivates me that you're out there getting up at 5 a.m.
and turning your life around I think that's awesome and also what I what I liked about this
was they pointed out that this isn't just military or police or jiu jitsu players it's for
pretty much anybody in any station in life and any job any age man or woman any country and
as a matter of fact I was in England and my wife from England and when I was in England I went and saw
one of my wife's friends who I'm friends with the husband and you know here's this woman
who's I don't know 40 something years old she's lives in England she's got three kids
she's like couldn't be any further detached from me in my life
and when I was I was hanging out with her husband in London before we went to their house
and he said when we got on the train to go to his house he said listen you got to be ready
and I'm like for what and he says my wife loves your podcast and I said really
and he said no no no I'm serious she loves your podcast and we have dinner night she's going to
ask you questions all my long she's been asking me the questions that she was going to ask you
and so I showed up and seriously it was great she was asking me all these detailed questions about
everything and it was really cool because I realized that this I mean this like I said this person
doesn't do due to jitsu doesn't you know doesn't do anything that I do nothing
and yet she was had all these lessons learned and all these things she had taken away and
it was awesome to see that and it was an interesting too because that's I was talking to her
it was on a Friday or a Saturday and as I'm talking to her she had listened to the latest podcast
on the day before and so she was saying to me you know well yesterday you said this and yesterday
you said that and so in her mind I was talking to her yesterday I was talking to her yesterday
and that's when I kind of realized that how how impactful is what we talked about where you know
where the words the podcast words are going directly into your brain and I've had a bunch of
people say you know oh when you're talking oh you were telling this story and I wanted you to talk
about this story you know for these are friends of mine and so so I think that's that's really cool
and I think that's why a lot of people are getting into the game and enjoying it because and you
just said it and I I say it all the time there's nothing new here and we're not
given out any ground breaking techniques and there's no miracle drug and there's no three-minute
exercise that's going to change your life I'm not selling the self-help reach your potential
through this magical mystery I'm telling people what they already know and we're talking about
things that people know to be right in their own heads like discipline and hard work and consistency
those are the things and we all know those things but to everybody that's that's kind of
known these things for a while but they've recently started to get after it good on you
yeah and get on that path yeah if it feels like stay on that path that's what I'm talking about
very cool I feel like like just like how you were saying like we a lot of this we already knew
we already know about state discipline we already know about all this stuff or whatever but coming from
you it helps and then on top of that I'm really starting to really understand and feel is that
you know all like you on Twitter like you engage you know you like someone asks your questions
it seems like you're engaging a lot more so than if somebody asks me question I'm going to answer
their question yeah I'm not rude which is it I try to for sure I would imagine you'd be you know
I have way more than me but kind of as a result of everything I feel like we're all kind of doing
this together you know you know how the guys done in Australia they'll post all that you know
a lot of people everyone they're posting there you know 430 a.m. wake up time to do this
everyone yeah because that's what you did now guess what we're all doing it you know we're all doing
it you're responding they're responding to you you're responding to them we're reading questions
from them yeah I think I'm a weird like these are other people yeah and through this weird
interweb they're actually asking questions from some unknown partner hold we're having a
conversation basically yeah it's kind of delayed but yeah that's exactly what's going on so
an example I should have just grabbed my phone and saw the half forget the guy's name but he was like
hey echo Sunday workout Sunday this was like early this morning maybe late last night whatever
Sunday workout give me one I need a Sunday workout so I was like oh okay so I gave him the workout it was
basically two rounds five sets of cleaning clean and press five reps clean and press five times
and then five burpees that's one set do five sets 45 seconds rest in between rest for two minutes
and then do five more 45 seconds rest that's it I said use 135 pounds I only said 135 pounds because
that's what that's the exact thing I do after I live and that's like to me that's the hard
lifting side that hard but that part's kind of hard to me the metcon the metcon yeah so I'm like
but I don't know maybe I don't know if I'm in good shape or not as far as that goes so I think
I say you do it and use that weight but here's the thing if he's smaller I don't know how big he is
we're just talking on Twitter you know so you know that put the weight didn't really matter
hopefully scaled it properly or he said later on he was like dang that was pain but I feel great
I was like solid he said hey but I adjusted the weight so I'm saying okay you know that makes sense
but my two reasons why I was into that is because I wanted that interaction like hey do my work up
you know and what I'm gonna do and I thought it was earlier this morning where
or earlier today I'm gonna send him back say you give me a workout oh nice and I'm gonna do it
and but make it something at least close to what you do or something you do and I'll give you
your evaluation you know so hopefully I can get some variety and it'll help that interaction I think
that's dope yeah like how he actually went and did it yeah I was like heck yeah it's good that
some barn in Iowa or some yellow it was awesome good deal last question there must be some aspect
of the Tutsi situation that I don't understand even if I'm on the losing side of the fight I still
want to go down swing I could tell how much this affected jacco it would suck to be so close to such
an unjust fight and not be able to do anything about it yes it it is hard to look at that situation
and really understand it and it's horrible look back at it now and know that we didn't do anything about it
but what can we do with it how can we apply this to everyday life because I agree with you
you gotta go down swinging and I'll tell you this if you if you fight with all you've got
more often than not you go down at all you win but you gotta make that attitude part of your
everyday life the extra rep the extra mile the extra round the right choices to make yourself
stronger mentally and physically stand and fight fight against weakness and against fear
their fight against time and decay fight back go down swing it
give every day everything you've got and when you face a challenge even something where you
don't believe you can win maybe to situation where you cannot win but if you can't win
remember this you have nothing to lose so stand up and go forward and go out in a blaze of glory
fighting with everything you've got every ounce of energy every beat is sweat and every drop of blood
to your last breath and then and only then you can stand down and you can put down your
sword and you can put down your shield and rest in peace and I think that's all I've got for the
night so thanks all you troopers out there tuning in and listening and thanks for remembering
you know we started this off tonight with the statement of remembrance of some fallen warriors
so thanks for remembering them remembering the past remembering war and the horror and the glory
and the heroes thanks for remembering that and thanks for learning from them
thanks for connecting with us through the interwebs you guys out there are opening my mind
with the books that you're sending me the articles that you're sending me the videos you're
sending me the connections you're making you're making us smarter so thank you and of course
thanks for supporting the podcast listening downloading subscribing reviewing right reviews get on iTunes
and write some reviews if you want if you feel like it yeah and then the other forums of support we got
on it of course on it dot com slash jacco get 10% off boom get you some warrior bars right yeah
yeah warrior bars is for sure and some offer brand of course and you read yeah or yeah or click
or go to jacco podcast.com and before you shop in amazon click on amazon link then do your shop
and that's cool donate if you want we got that now and yeah if you like the t-shirts and
coffee mugs bumper stickers that we got on jacco store too yeah get some of those solid also
if you want to add to the conversation when you're not listening to the podcast jacco is at
jacco willing oh Twitter jacco willing and i'm at at echo Charles and you made the the
Facebook too which has not been utilized as much yet right and i've been slowly checking them um
all right check them we pulled questions from them okay good good okay so facebook dot com slash
jacco podcast and i think slowly we're going to transition to getting the questions from there
everywhere probably really for another good question the long questions i mean yeah that it's hard
good stuff don't take pictures of long questions and post them because i copy and paste them into
a document so yeah folks out there that took pictures of questions and i twitter jy back and said hey
right that yeah so yeah cool yeah there it is boom yeah and if you uh if you're interested in the book
lathe babbin and i wrote extreme ownership it's all these basic principles we talk about all the time
you can get it hardcover kindle or you get an audio book which the audio book is myself and
lathe reading it so or any books that you've covered on any of these podcasts that's on jacco store.com
by the way so on the top menu you click on that that books and it'll show the description and what
podcast it was on it's a journey you can buy them from that awesome so finally and most importantly
to everybody out there you sit in there with your headphones on listening thank you thanks for deciding
that you are going to hold the line that you're going to fight through the discomfort and the weakness
and the pain and you're going to get up and get after it so until next time
this is jacco and echo out